VSCode Insiders 2017 Review - Coming from Emacs
---

How I set up VSCode
  - I hit C-S-p, selected color theme and chose Solarized Dark
  - `C-,`, opened settings where I set the font Hasklig, and enabled _font ligatures_. 
  - Installed extensions relevant for the programming modes I use.

Things I immediately miss from Emacs:
  - dired
  - the minibuffer, e.g. open a file from minibuffer.

Customization
  - Coming from Emacs, I have the notion that mostly anything that can be thought up can ultimately be customized (via Emacs-Lisp)^[1], 

  [1]: Of course, the limitation of emacs-lisp are there. Some things in Emacs are after all decided in compile C code. 

Things I sort of miss from Emacs
  - org-mode - Always having your note taking tool available (e.g. org-capture).

Things I like about VSCode
   - Built in Zen mode. I like keeping my screen clear from everything but the text sometimes.
   - Section folding built in. 
   - The settings configuration mode. It's quite minimal and smart. Focus in on creating a distributable text file for settings. 
   - Markdown preview built in.

Things I strongly dislike about VSCode
  - The hard blue color of the status bar can not be themed as of writing, I read this is about to soon be changed though.

Working in Haskell
  - Working in the programming language Haskell with some extensions, depending on Intero seems to work fine. Terminal integration is nice and auto completion in GHCi does work. 

Performance
  - In comparison to Atom editor (or LightTable), VSCode launches much faster and seems to perform a lot better. I am surprised that a program based on Electron can perform this well.

What you're giving up when moving from Emacs to VSCode
  - Using the mouse. Emacs doesn't need one. VSCode will sometimes need mouse interaction. This can impact workflow.

What's to be gained from using VScode over Emacs
  - Fonts may look better.
  - Performance may be more reliable.

Conclusion,
  - I'm seriously impressed by how mature of an editor VSCode is. I really think they should replace the default "open file" panes with something better (compare Emacs minibuffer, ido and such). I had tried Atom and managed to customize it to a functioning state, but really slow startup times and _performance reliability_ made that editor feel bloated and unacceptably slow and I went back to GNU Emacs. 
  - The performance characteristics of GNU Emacs running on Windows are however quite poor in my experience and I even looked at minimal retro editors such as micro-emacs to always have a fast reliable text editor which always start up in under a second. MicroEmacs achieve that but the downsides are many - apart from all the possible functionality one gives up, making text _look decent_ can be very hard, near impossible. Perhaps running a microEmacs in a good terminal emulator is a smart choice, but if you're on Windows for whatever reason, there really isn't a good terminal emulator available.
